To get a better understanding of
the concept of weighted averages.
And how a simple exponential
smoothing method is calculated.
Let's jump over to Excel and
apply a weighted average to a series
of points and predict the next value.
Our Stock_Weekly_Values.xlxs
has four columns.
The Date, the closing value of
the stock, a column for our weights, and
a Forecast column.
Notice that if you sum up the weights,
they add up to 1.
This represents one full
period in the time series.
I've also left an alpha calculation
at the bottom of column E.
This displays how we can calculate
the decay of our weights for
an exponential smoothing method.
You'll see the four values in the alpha
column match the last four weights.
That is because our weights column
is actually an exponential decay
calculation of alpha value 0.6.
The calculation for
this is alpha multiplied by
the difference of 1 minus alpha.
Raised to the power of the number
of time periods behind our most
recent value.
Let's start our forecasting calculation
by multiplying each value from our
closing values column against
its respective weight.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Now, sum up the values at
our Forecast column and
you'll have the next forecasted value.
You could then continue this process
to extrapolate your forecast into
future periods.